## The World of Programming

I often refer to programming as a world in and of itself because the analogy captures the fear of the unknown, the excitement of exploration, and the vastness of the territories involved. I wish someone had told me in the beginning that learning to program is like learning to navigate in that world.

As a child, it's not until you gather up the courage to open the door to the outside world that you begin to see the boundaries between your yard and the neighbor's yard, between the yard and the street. And for many suburban youths, the concept of how streets fit together to connect the various places in our lives doesn't begin to click until they begin to drive. There's so much to learn: street signs, local roads versus highways, county, state, and international borders. For a child just beginning to explore her own yard, international travel is just an abstract idea.

Similarly, beginners in programming know neither up nor down. They may have heard of a programming language or two, but without sufficient context, they have little understanding of what those languages actually are, or what they're good for, or what "good" is.

This is a flawed metaphor, as all metaphors ultimately are, but I like to think of the world of programming as being composed of the various industries or specialties that involve programming. A few you may have heard of are games, websites, desktop applications, and mobile apps. A few you may not have heard of include natural language processing, embedded systems, data visualization, and artificial intelligence.

Just like real geographies, the borders we draw between them are fuzzy at best. For instance, there are both internet games, mobile games, and desktop application games. But imagine for a moment that each is its own little city, mountain, or forest, and together they form the world of programming. Each one has its own peculiarities, like popular languages, landmarks, cultures, and communities. _Especially_ cultures and communities, in a literal sense. As you learn more about the world of programming, you may find that it is often the people you meet that are the most important aspects of programming.

It's also useful to think about programming as a geography because expertise in programming has both breadth and depth, like geography. That is, your knowledge of Chicago is not very useful when you're in New York (breadth), and chances are, no matter how well you know Chicago, someone will know it better than you, even if it's just their neighborhood (depth). There's a lot of things to learn a lot about, but that's no reason to be afraid. Learning how to navigate means finding a few tools or methods that will help you figure out how to get from point A to point B regardless of whether you've been to either place before.

Granted, it is a big place. The immensity of it all can be overwhelming, even to experienced programmers. Feeling fear or confusion is a normal reaction. But unlike real physical travel, most journeys in programming take place primarily in your own mind. You can always go back to somewhere familiar as easily as thinking of something else.

That said, there's a lot of opportunities to explore, learn, and gain new perspectives in the world of programming. So stick around - we're just getting started!

